Chatting with Matrix
====================

The Zuul community uses mailing lists for long-form communication and
IRC for real-time (or near real-time) chat.  We are working on moving
our chat platform to Matrix.  You can start using Matrix now to chat
with us on IRC and when we move, the transition will be seamless.

This guide will walk you through getting started with Matrix and how
to use it to join communities like Zuul on IRC.

Familiar with Matrix already and want to jump straight to the room?
Follow this link: `https://matrix.to/#/#_oftc_#zuul:matrix.org <https://matrix.to/#/#_oftc_#zuul:matrix.org>`_

Why Use Matrix?
---------------

Matrix has a number of clients available including feature-rich web,
desktop and mobile clients, as well as integration with the popular
text-based weechat client.  This provides plenty of choices based on
your own preference.  This guide will focus on using the Element web
client.

Matrix supports persistent presence in "rooms".  Once you join a room,
your homeserver will keep you connected to that room and save all of
the messages sent to it, so that if you close your client and return
later, you won't miss anything.  You don't need to run your own server
to use Matrix; you are welcome to use the public server at matrix.org.
But if you are a member of an organization that already runs a
homeserver, or you would like to run one yourself, you may do so and
federate with the larger Matrix network.  This guide will walk you
through setting up an account on the matrix.org homeserver.

Matrix is an open (in every sense of the word) federated communication
system.  Because of this it's possible to bridge the Matrix network to
other networks (including IRC, slack, etc).  That makes it the perfect
system to use to communicate with various communities using a single
interface.

Create An Account
-----------------

If you don't already have an account on a Matrix homeserver, go to
https://app.element.io/ to create one, then click `Create Account`.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-welcome.png
   :align: center

You can create an account with an email address or one of the
supported authentication providers.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-create.png
   :align: center

You'll be asked to accept the terms and conditions of the service.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-accept.png
   :align: center

If you are registering an account via email, you will be prompted to
verify your email address.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-verify.png
   :align: center

You will receive an email like this:

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-verify-email.png
   :align: center

Once you click the link in the email, your account will be created.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-success.png
   :align: center

You can follow the link to sign in.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-signin.png
   :align: center

Join the #zuul Channel
----------------------

The ``#zuul`` channel is hosted on the OFTC IRC network, and is
accessible via a bridge run by the Matrix community.  To join
``#zuul``, perform the following steps:

Click the plus icon next to `Rooms` on the left of the screen, then
click `Explore public rooms` in the dropdown that appears.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-rooms-dropdown.png
   :align: center

A popup dialog will appear; below the search bar in the dialog, click
the dropdown selector labeled `Matrix rooms (matrix.org)` and change
it to `OFTC rooms (matrix.org)`.  Then enter ``#zuul`` into the search
box.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-rooms-zuul.png
   :align: center

It will display `No results for "#zuul"` which is an unfortunate
consequence of one of the anti-spam measures that is necessary on IRC.
Disregard that and hit `enter` or click `Join`, and you will join the
room.

If this is your first time joining an OFTC channel, you will also
receive an invitation to join the `OFTC IRC Bridge status` room.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-rooms-invite.png
   :align: center

Accept the invitation.

.. image:: /images/matrix/account-rooms-accept.png
   :align: center

This is a private control channel between you and the system that
operates the OFTC bridge.  Here you can perform some IRC commands such
as changing your nickname and setting up nick registration.  That is
out of scope for this HOWTO, but advanced IRC users may be interested
in doing so.

You may repeat this procedure for any other IRC channels on the OFTC,
Freenode, or libera.chat networks.

Click the `#zuul` room name on the left of the screen to return the
Zuul room.

Go ahead and say hi, introduce yourself, and let us know what you're
working on or any questions you have.  Keep in mind that the Zuul
community is world-wide and we may be away from our desks when you
join.  Because Matrix keeps a message history, we'll see your message
and you'll see any responses, even if you close your browser and log
in later.

Optional: Save Encryption Keys
------------------------------

The Matrix protocol supports end-to-end encryption.  We don't have
this enabled for the ``#zuul`` room (there's little point as it's a
public room), but if you start direct chats with other Matrix users,
your communication will be encrypted by default.  Since it's
*end-to-end* encryption, that means your encryption keys are stored on
your client, and the server has no way to decrypt those messages.  But
that also means that if you sign out of your client or switch
browsers, you will lose your encryption keys along with access to any
old messages that were encrypted with them.  To avoid this, you can
back up your keys to the server (in an encrypted form, of course) so
that if you log in from another session, you can restore those keys
and pick up where you left off.  To set this up, open the User Menu by
clicking on your name at the top left of the screen.

.. image:: /images/matrix/user-menu.png
   :align: center

Click the `Security & privacy` menu item in the dropdown.

.. image:: /images/matrix/user-menu-dropdown.png
   :align: center

Click the `Set up` button under `Encryption` / `Secure Backup` in the
dialog that pops up.

.. image:: /images/matrix/user-encryption.png
   :align: center

Follow the prompts to back up your encryption keys.

Optional: Register with an Identity Provider
--------------------------------------------

By default, there is no public link between your Matrix account and
any identifying information such as your email address.  However, you
may wish people to be able to find your Matrix ID by looking up your
email address or phone number.  We also have plans to add additional
functionality to our bots if they are able to look up contributors by
email addresses.  If you wish to make your account discoverable in
this way, you may perform the following steps to list your account in
one of the public third-party identifier services.  Note that these
services are designed to only return results for someone who already
knows your email address or phone number; they take care to ensure
that it is not possible (or nearly so) to "scrape" their data sets to
obtain lists of users.

To get started, open the User Menu and click `All settings`.  Under
the `General` section, find `Email addresses`.  If you followed the
instructions above, you should already have an email address listed
here.  If you don't, enter your address, click `Add`, and follow the
instructions to verify your address.  The dialog should look like this
when complete:

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-email-complete.png
   :align: center

To make your account discoverable by email, scroll down to the
`Discovery` section.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc.png
   :align: center

Read the privacy notice and click the checkbox
next to `Accept`.  That will enable the `Continue` button; click that
to proceed.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-accept.png
   :align: center

The `Discovery` section will be replaced with the email address you
registered above.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-accept.png
   :align: center

Click the `Share` button next to the address.  The system will send an
email to you, and meanwhile the dialog will show this:

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-verify-wait.png
   :align: center

You will receive an email like this:

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-verify-email.png
   :align: center

Follow the link in the email to verify it really is you making the
request.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-verify-success.png
   :align: center

Then return to the settings page and click the `Complete` button.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-verify-wait.png
   :align: center

Once everything is finished, the complete button should change to read
`Revoke`.

.. image:: /images/matrix/id-disc-verify-complete.png
   :align: center

If you see that, you're all done.  If you change your mind and don't
want your account to be discoverable via email, you can click the
`Revoke` button at any time.
