.gitattributes
.gitignore
LICENSE
README.md
requirements.txt
setup.py
frheed/__init__.py
frheed/__version__.py
frheed/calcs.py
frheed/constants.py
frheed/gui.py
frheed/image_processing.py
frheed/materials.py
frheed/settings.py
frheed/styles.py
frheed/utils.py
frheed.egg-info/PKG-INFO
frheed.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
frheed.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
frheed.egg-info/requires.txt
frheed.egg-info/top_level.txt
frheed/cameras/__init__.py
frheed/cameras/flir/__init__.py
frheed/cameras/flir/install_pyspin.py
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/README.txt
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/spinnaker_python-2.4.0.144-cp38-cp38-win32.whl
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/docs/FLIR Camera Getting Started.html
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/docs/PySpinDoc.chm
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/docs/PySpinDoc.pdf
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/licenses/FFmpeg_compliance_doc.txt
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win32/licenses/Spinnaker-Open-Source-Licenses.pdf
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win64/README.txt
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win64/spinnaker_python-2.4.0.144-cp38-cp38-win_amd64.whl
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win64/licenses/FFmpeg_compliance_doc.txt
frheed/cameras/flir/spinnaker_win64/licenses/Spinnaker-Open-Source-Licenses.pdf
frheed/cameras/usb/__init__.py
frheed/resources/icons/FRHEED.ico
frheed/resources/icons/FRHEED.png
frheed/resources/icons/blue rect.png
frheed/resources/icons/change user icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/checkbox.png
frheed/resources/icons/close tab hover icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/close tab icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/disabled moving icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/down button gray.png
frheed/resources/icons/down button hover.png
frheed/resources/icons/down button.png
frheed/resources/icons/edit sample icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/green rect.png
frheed/resources/icons/hidden icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/left button gray.png
frheed/resources/icons/left button hover.png
frheed/resources/icons/left button.png
frheed/resources/icons/moving icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/open folder icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/orange rect.png
frheed/resources/icons/picture icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/plot icon disabled.png
frheed/resources/icons/plot icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/purple rect.png
frheed/resources/icons/red rect.png
frheed/resources/icons/right button gray.png
frheed/resources/icons/right button hover.png
frheed/resources/icons/right button.png
frheed/resources/icons/start recording icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/stop plot icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/stop recording icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/up button gray.png
frheed/resources/icons/up button hover.png
frheed/resources/icons/up button.png
frheed/resources/icons/update plot icon disabled.png
frheed/resources/icons/update plot icon.png
frheed/resources/icons/visible icon.png
frheed/widgets/__init__.py
frheed/widgets/camera_widget.py
frheed/widgets/canvas_widget.py
frheed/widgets/common_widgets.py
frheed/widgets/plot_widgets.py
frheed/widgets/rheed_widgets.py
frheed/widgets/selection_widgets.py